lky\1979\lky0602.doc Transcript of an interview given by Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew To Dr Olaf Ihlau of “Suddeutsche Zeitung” on 2 June 1979 at the Istana Dr Olaf Ihlau : Mr Prime Minister, not long ago, in last October, at the World Congress of the International Chamber of Commerce in Orlando, you gave a rather optimistic assessment about the future perspectives for Asean. China, Vietnam and Cambodia were then locked in deep conflicts and you were expecting more years of relative peace and stability for the non-communist areas of Southeast Asia. Now after Vietnam’s intervention in Cambodia and after the ChinaVietnam war, the breathing space for this region may become smaller, the dangers of communist subversion and guerilla actions increase. How does this changed your position? Prime Minister : I have not changed my view. If the Vietnamese were to attack Thailand, then a new situation will arise. In that lky\1979\lky0602.doc case the situation will not be dissimilar to that in Dec 1978, after the Vietnamese attack on Kampuchea, and before February 1979, when China marched into Vietnam as a selfappointed punisher. Dr Olaf Ihlau : As the rules of the game in Southeast Asia seemed to have changed now, would you support the idea of military and security arrangements between the Asean States to face a possible Vietnamese threat? Prime Minister : All of us have been re-thinking our positions. For the present, the Thai Prime Minister has stated that there should be no military pacts. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Some call Vietnam the “Cuba of Asia”. To what extent has the expansion of Soviet influence changed the power balance in Asia? And how do you evaluate the Soviet’s role as Hanoi’s “adviser”? Prime Minister : First, I do not want to use the words or phrases which have been coined by either of the combatants. Since China lky\1979\lky0602.doc has called Vietnam the Cuba of Asia, I do not wish to use such a vivid, if simplistic metaphor. In any case Vietnamese are a more serious minded people than the Cubans. Second, I do not know whether the Soviets have advised the Vietnamese on the decision they have taken. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Well, they have a peace treaty of support to them before. Prime Minister : That might be because the Soviets supported what the Vietnamese wanted to do, not that they advised it. But whatever the genesis, the situation today, of course, is more favourable for the Soviet Union. The Vietnamese depend on the Soviet Union for military support and supplies. A price will have to be paid. lky\1979\lky0602.doc Dr Olaf Ihlau : Seeing the contest for influence in Southeast Asia between the Soviet Union and China, has the China-Vietnam war changed the judgment in the Asean countries about China’s role and possibility to become a force of peace and stability in Asia? Prime Minister : For the time being, China is not able to pursue her aim to communise the countries of Southeast Asia through the communist parties in these various countries. She has however, consistently refused to abjure this aim. It is wise to remember this. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Regarding a question about the unity of Asean, you pointed out … different interests, for instance, if one sees in a time … front state compared with the interests, maybe of the Philippines, and connecting with these are there problems for Asean countries to avoid taking sides between China, Vietnam and the Soviet Union? lky\1979\lky0602.doc Prime Minister : We have consistently to be on our side and to protect our own interests. Whether this happens to be on the side of Vietnam or China or the Soviet Union is incidental. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Some in Europe have enthusiastic hopes concerning China’s opening to modernisation. Others are warning that this course is mainly depending on the influence of Mr Deng. What is your assessment about the political future of China? Prime Minister : If the present policy can persist for three to five years, and within this period the people of China, particularly for those living in the big cities, enjoy some of the benefits of modernisation, then the chances are that modernisation will continue. If the policy continues for 10-15 years, and China imports more industrial equipment and know-how together with the engineers and managers, sends more students and scientists abroad to learn in the industrialised countries, then there will be changes in China. The era of splendid isolation is over. More contacts and inter-action between China’s leaders, scientists, students, managers, engineers and political cadres inevitably will lead to a more realistic perception of lky\1979\lky0602.doc the world and their place in it. The simple assumptions of the past 30 years have been discarded and are no longer creditable. How much this will change Chinese society and how different it will make China from the Soviet Union or Rumania, or Yugoslavia, nobody can tell. It requires little imagination to foresee that China will want to be different from them and from America or Japan. And indeed she is different even without Communists in charge. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Mr Prime Minister, you have criticised the diminishing geopolitical importance of the United States. How do they exert their influence in Asia? Prime Minister : American mass media and the US Congress will decide what a President and his Administration can do in Southeast Asia. We cannot expect an active policy, like it was before the Vietnam war. So we must make our plans accordingly. Dr Olaf Ihlau : There are others who use the same criticism. How can Europe, politically and economically, take part in the development of Asia? lky\1979\lky0602.doc Prime Minister : More trade, more investments, wider diplomatic consultation and co-ordination. When rebel troops re-entered Katanga Province in 1978, Europeans reacted swiftly by sending an expeditionary force to help the Zairean Government. Unfortunately the importance of Southeast Asia to the world geopolitical balance was not seen as clearly by America’s allies in the 1960’s and 70’s. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Growing military confrontation and the increasing influence of the Soviet, so-called, “Trojan horses” have brought the Non-Aligned Movement to the verge of collapse. Would a split not only be more honest but also politically more preferable than a unity in confusion? lky\1979\lky0602.doc Prime Minister : The process of subversion of the Non-Aligned Movement has been going on for several years. The communists are activists. As long as they were like the Yugoslavs, generally non-aligned, the communists were assets to the movement. Now it’s different. Two members have special treaties aligning them with the Soviet Union. If, with the help of the other members who although without special treaty obligations are nevertheless indebted to the Soviets, they can subvert the movement and turn it to their purposes, then the Non-Aligned Movement will splinter and break up. The Yugoslavs know this. They are trying hard to forestall this breakup. Whether the movement is worth preserving depends on the outcome of the meetings in Colombo, and later in Havana. Dr Olaf Ihlau : But you are not going to Havana, as you have not been to Colombo? Prime Minister : No, I am not intending to go. But Singapore will be represented. lky\1979\lky0602.doc Dr Olaf Ihlau : The security and the stability of Southeast Asia is not only depending on the developments in Indo-China but also on the events in West Asia. In the unrest there, the West has suffered some setbacks. What are your views about these changes? Prime Minister : Grave and potentially catastrophic. They have further diminished American influence in West Asia and this is not good. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Can Muslim fundamentalism be a serious challenge for the expansion of Soviet or Chinese communism in Asia? Prime Minister : In the initial phases, yes. It has created difficulties for the communists as for example, in Afghanistan. In the later phases, after prolonged unstable or chaotic conditions, the Leninist’s organisation methods will give an advantage to the communists even though they are in a minority. Tightly disciplined in cells and firmly controlled in a clear-cut hierarchy, they have more coherence against the popularly lky\1979\lky0602.doc supported but loosely organised leaders to seize control by force and to retain power by force. Dr Olaf Ihlau : You are going to Europe now, visiting among other countries Germany. Is there anything that a country like yours here, after its success, … can learn from Germany or from Europe? Prime Minister : Yes. Germany has demonstrated how it is possible to be democratic and disciplined, how to overcome the malaise that have beset most matured industrialised societies where high consumption has not been accompanied by a sense of fulfilment. In most Western countries the good life has brought about aimlessness, weakening of political will. For example, there is an unwillingness to endure temporary hardships to restructure their economies to move away from the low technology manufactures which the developing countries are exporting. Instead unions and manufacturers want to stop imports by tariffs and quotas. Another example is the apparent lack of resolve to take their conventional defence forces seriously, instead of heavy reliance on U.S. lky\1979\lky0602.doc tactical nuclear weapons. On both these counts, Germany has bucked the trend by not becoming soft-headed through soft-living. Dr Olaf Ihlau : As I have lived several years in Yugoslavia and seen what is happening and there are some, well, not so friendly prospects for the future after Tito, the problem of relatively closed political society where the leader is not really looking after for the follow-up in the leadership. I would like to ask you what kind - you are especially younger - what kind of … Prime Minister : Thirty years younger. Dr Olaf Ihlau : More than 30 years younger. Tito is 87. What kind of preparations have you done for the so called (I would use the expression here) the “second generation leadership”? Prime Minister : To ensure continuity a leader must be willing to face changes. He must be willing to allow younger men to work out their own styles of solving new problems and old problems. The domestic-social-economic-political situation lky\1979\lky0602.doc is changed. The international setting has also altered. To ensure continuity in effective leadership, my Senior Ministers cannot go on solving all the problems. If we do, the younger one swill never exercise and develop their own political touch. Of course, if they can learn from our past experience, they can avoid making the same mistakes we have made and paid for. Dr Olaf Ihlau : Thank you very much.